---
layout: docs
title: "Transfer Instructions"
---

## Transfer Overview & Setup

An item must be inventoried in the Digital Media Log before it is transferred. See instructions for [Inventorying Digital Media Items](inventory). When a digital media item is imaged or otherwise has its contents transferred, this must be recorded in the Digital Media Log.

## Destination Folders and File Names

Newly created disk transfers are stored on Ginger; this is accessible via mounted shares on the FRED and BitCurator workstations. Please note that the Virus Checking Workstation is not backed up, so transfers should be scanned and moved to the Digital Records (X) drive as soon as possible. On Ginger and the X drive, all transfers are stored in a directory with the name of the ID auto-generated by the Digital Media Log. On the X drive, these directories are located in a parent directory with the FA or Accession number.

## Choosing Transfer Method

Disk images are single files containing the complete content and structure representing a data storage medium or device. There are different types of images. Forensic images perfectly replicate the structure and contents of a storage device, and allow the viewing of deleted files and slackspace (i.e, the unused space in a disk cluster). Logical images \[AD1\] are not true forensic images; and do not include file slackspace. At this point in time, disk images are created in-house for optical disks [(CDs and DVDs)](#cds-and-dvds), [external hard drives](#hard-drives-&-usb-flash-drives), [USB Flash drives](#hard-drives-&-usb-flash-drives), [5.25-inch floppy disks and 3.5-inch floppy disks](#3-1/2-inch-and-5-1/4-inch-floppy-disks) (recently dated disks that are PC-formatted). The hardware used to create images will vary depending on the type of digital media.

## CDs and DVDs

In general, optical disk images will be forensically imaged using FTK Imager or BitCurator. Forensics images cannot be made for Audio CDs. Please see [Audio CDs](#audio-cds) for instructions.

The following describes how to create disk images using FTK Imager. FTK Imager is digital forensics software used to create disk images of digital media separated either at accessioning, processing or during the Legacy Digital Media Survey. FTK Imager is a different program than the Forensic Toolkit, which is usually referred to as FTK.

### Imaging with the Command Line

1.  Insert the disk in the drive.
2.  In the command prompt, run the script optical\_disks.sh.

### Audio CDs

1.  On the FRED, open Exact Audio Copy and insert the CD into the optical disk drive.
2.  In the CD Title field, enter the digital media ID of the CD. Remove text from the CD author field.
3.  On the lefthand side, click the button that says "IMG." This will create 1 uncompressed WAV file (containing all tracks) and a CUE file.
4.  Select the appropriate folder to store the files. See transfer-overview for information on where files should be stored.
5.  When copying is complete, click "Create Log File."

[Troubleshoot CDs & DVDs](troubleshooting#cds-and-dvds)

## Hard Drives & USB Flash Drives

The following describes how to create disk images using **FTK Imager** on the FRED.

External hard drives and USB Flash drives need to be imaged using the FRED because it has a hardware write blocker. External hard drives and USB Flash drives need to be connected to the Tableau UltraBay write blocker on the FRED, and the Tableau UltraBay needs to be turned ON.

### Imaging Instructions

1.  Turn on the Tableau UltraBay write blocker on the FRED. Two green lights should appear – the Power light and the WrtBlk light. Do not plug in your device unless these lights are on.
2.  Open FTK Imager and plug in the device to image. Click **Create Disk Image** in the **File Menu** Select the source evidence type. Hard drives and thumb drives are physical media, so select **Physical Drive**.
3.  Select the **Source Drive Location**. This can be a little confusing, as the program picks up all connected drives – including the one you’re working on. The FRED machine has quite a few drives. You can distinguish between them by using the data size listed in the dialog box. For example, two of the drives are listed at 2000GB and 7999GB, respectively. You can also disregard the WIBU Codemeter Stick USB device, which is a USB key to run the Forensic Toolkit. Click **Finish** to continue
4.  A dialog box will appear, this time asking where to store the image. Click **Add.** Before the location of the image file can be identified, the type of image file to create needs to be selected. We use the E01 file format. Click **Next** to move forward.
5.  The Evidence Item dialog box will appear. Insert the digital media ID associated with the item into the **Evidence Number** field. This is generated by the Digital Media Log. All other fields can be left blank.
6.  The next screen prompts you to identify where the disk image will be stored. See transfer-overview for information on the **Image Destination Folder:** and **Image Filename:**. Additionally, the **Compression** level and **Image Fragment Size** should both be set to 0 and **Use AD Encryption:** should be left unchecked.    
7.  Click **Finish** to return to the Create Image dialog window, this time with the necessary information completed. Double check the **Image Source**, the **Image Destination**, and that both **Verify images after they are created** and **Create directory listings of all files in the image after they are created** are checked. Click **Start** to initiate the imaging process.
8.  A Creating Image dialog window will appear. It will indicate how much time has elapsed during the creation of the image.
9.  Once completed, the Status will read **Image created successfully**. You will also receive notification that the Directory Listing was created successfully. In the image destination folder, you will see the image (.E01), the Directory Listing file (.csv), and the Verify Results file (.txt). The Verify Results Summary contains the same data presented in the Image Summary area below. This information contains the image checksum information needed for the Digital Media database.
10. Make sure to safely eject the hardware you were imaging. Failure to do so can result in irreparable damage to the media.

### Further Information

A detailed Manual for FTK Imager is available as a PDF. It is located on the M drive or through the web. <http://ad-pdf.s3.amazonaws.com/ImagerUsersGuide.pdf>

## 3 1/2 Inch and 5 1/4 Inch Floppy Disks

3 1/2 inch and 5 1/4 inch floppy disks need to be imaged using KryoFlux, a USB-based forensic floppy controller and the accompanying software. The following describes how to create disk images using KryoFlux.

For guidelines on which directories images should be put in and file naming conventions, see /transfer/setup

The KryoFlux can be used with Windows, Mac, and Linux machines, and has both command line and GUI interfaces. Scripts using the KryoFlux command line tools on the BitCurator machine are preferred in most cases, but it is also possible to use the GUI on the FRED.

### KryoFlux Hardware Setup

Warning: Incorrect setup can damage the KryoFlux and void our warranty. Follow the setup instructions carefully; for more details and images see the [official documentation](&lt;<http://>kryoflux.com/?page=download\#docs&gt;) or the [Setup and Installation](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LViSnYpvr2jf1TrCh6ELuL-FWo14ICw-WZeb8j5GGpU/edit#heading=h.jvaxyk94isq6) page of the Archivist's Guide to KryoFlux.

1.  On a flat, non-conductive surface, connect the drive to the KryoFlux using the floppy data cable.
2.  Connect KryoFlux to the FRED using the USB port in the back of the tower.
3. Connect the drive to power.

    <div class="docs-example">
      <p>Important! Always make the drive – board - connection first, then plug the power (PSU & USB). <strong>Power always comes last! You are connecting two systems with different grounds, so ground (connected via the floppy data cable) must always come first. Never ever connect or remove the floppy data cable while the drive and/or the board are still powered.</strong></p>
    </div>

4.  Always unplug and disconnect from mains when not in use! Do not leave unattended!
5.  When switching between drives (e.g. from imaging 3.5” disks to 5.25” disks) the drive will need to be calibrated.

    <div class="docs-example">
      <p>To calibrate using the command line:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Open the command prompt and cd to the DTC folder</li>
        <li>Run “dtc -c2”</li>
      </ol>
      <p>To calibrate using the GUI:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Open the GUI and select the “Drive” tab at the top of the window</li>
        <li>Select either Drive 0 or Drive 1 in the drop-down menu. Note: the drive will not calibrate if the wrong drive is selected. If you are unsure of which Drive to select, reference <a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LViSnYpvr2jf1TrCh6ELuL-FWo14ICw-WZeb8j5GGpU/edit#heading=h.s1zf81h6kdr3">Understanding Drive 1/0</a> in the “Archivists Guide to KyroFlux”</li>
        <li>Select "Calibrate" from the drop-down menu</li>
      </ol>
    </div>

### Imaging with the KryoFlux on the Command Line

1.  After setting up the KryoFlux hardware, insert the floppy disk into the drive.
2.  In the command prompt, navigate to the /dtc directory.
3. dtc -f\[filename\].img -i\[imagetype\]

    <div class="docs-example">
      <p>image types correspond to numbers; "4" is for MFM images</p>
    </div>

### Imaging with the KryoFlux GUI on the FRED
1.  Open the **kryoflux-ui.jar – Shortcut** on the desktop.
2.  After setting up the KryoFlux hardware, insert the floppy disk into the drive.
3.  For each image you create, you must change the output file. In order to so, go to **File &gt; Settings**. and navigate to the **Output** tab. Enter the directory the image will be in. Make sure **Logs** is checked.
4.  On the main KryoFlux screen, enter the name of the image in the text field. The image name is constructed with the accession number or FA number followed by the digital media ID.  

    <div class="docs-example">
      <p>Example: 2012\_077\_DM0000000001 or FA012\_DM0000000759</p>
    </div>

5.  Choose the appropriate image format from the drop down menu.

    <div class="docs-example">
      <p> If the disk format is unknown, but is a 3.5” floppy, first try “MFM Sector Image.” “FM sector image” and “MFM sector image” support basically any normal disk used for systems that contain a generic FM or MFM FDC.
      </p>
      <p>For 3.5” disks, if MFM or FM does not work, try FM Sector Information, CBM DOS sector image, AmigaDOS sector image, Amiga DiskSpare sector image, Apple DOS 400k/800k sector image, or CBM DOS extended sector image.</p>
    </div>

6.  KryoFlux is separated into three sub-windows. The upper left window contains the track gird. Each blog of the grid represents a track on the disk’s surface. The upper right window contains the track info block, with two more tabs called “Histogram” and “Scatter.” The lower part of the window is the control section, where the current track, drive controls, and the filename are displayed. Below the filename is the format selector, which itself is dependent on profiles. The complete last line of the window is the status line which displays additional information. During dumping, blocks change their color according to the result of the process.
  - **Green** – track decoded, no errors found
  - **Grey** – noise (or unknown encoding scheme)
  - **Red** – track decoded, error(s) found, reading will be retried
  - **Yellow** – notifications and warnings, e.g., additional header
        data found
  - **Glowing** – track is being dumped
  - To get more information about the result of a certain track, move your mouse pointer over it. This will output the result of the operation in the status line.
7.  Click **Start** and note what time imaging started.
8.  Record information in Disk Imaging form in the Digital Media Inventory database.

[Troubleshoot 3 1/2 Inch and 5 1/4 Inch Floppy Disks](troubleshooting#3-1/2-inch-and-5-1/4-inch-floppy-disks)


[Scanning for Viruses](virus_scan)
